+++
title = '11/07'
date = 2023-10-28T16:33:45-07:00
draft = false
tags = ['1929', 'Kristallnacht']
bookFlatSection = false
bookToc = true
bookHidden = false
bookCollapseSection = false
bookComments = true
bookSearchExclude = false
type = 'docs'
+++
{{< pdf-file "/pdf/1938-11-07-p1.pdf" >}}

{{< pdf-file "/pdf/1938-11-07-p2.pdf" >}}

# Polish Jew Shoots Reich Diplomat in France for Revenge

## Youth Critically Wounds Secretary to Avenge Ousted Thousands

### BACKGROUND -- Germany and Poland were engaged last week in mild controversy over status of Polish Jews in Germany. Germany shipped several thousand back to homeland in fear that new Polish passport regulations might deprive them of Polish citizenship and leave them as public charges on Germany's hands.

## By the Associated Press.

## Paris, Nov. 7--A 17-year-old Polish Jew, declaring he had gone to avenge his countrymen who have been expelled from Germany, today shot and gravely wounded a secratary of the German Embassy.

## The secretary, Ernst von Rath, 32-year-old nephew of the late Roland Koester, former German Ambassador to France, was taken to a hospital, where he underwent an operation for removal of bullets from his abdomen and one shoulder.

## The assailant, who gave his name as Herschel Grynszpan, foremerly of Hanover, Germany, was captured by embassy attaches after a brief scuffle and handed over to the French police.

## An embassy spokesman said the youth who fired the shot declared he "wanted to avenge his Polish brethren."

## The youth entered the Embassy at 9:35 a.m. He was taken to the office of Von Rath, who is attached to German legation service as well as to the Embassy. Two pistol shots rang out, and other attaches came on the run.

## Both shots struck Von Rath and wounded him gravely. He was taken to a nearby hospital.

## The Embassy spokesman charged that the youth was "excited by Jews in France."

## The Embassy said the youth first made a shrot speech to the secretary telling him he had come to avenge his countrymen.

## Then he pulled the pistol and fired. One bullet entered Von Rath's right shoulder, the other the left part of the abdomen.

## The youth carried a Polish passport, although born in Hanover, the Embassy said.