+++
title = '11/08'
date = 2023-10-28T16:33:45-07:00
draft = false
tags = ['1929', 'Kristallnacht']
bookFlatSection = false
bookToc = true
bookHidden = false
bookCollapseSection = false
bookComments = true
bookSearchExclude = false
type = 'docs'
+++
{{< pdf-file "/pdf/1938-11-08-p1.pdf" >}}

{{< pdf-file "/pdf/1938-11-08-p2.pdf" >}}

# Jews Are Disarmed In Berlin After Paris Shooting

## Reprisals Against Race Reported Taken in Two Reich Towns

By the Associated Press

BERLIN, Nov. 8--Count Wolf von Helldorf, chief of Berlin Police, announced today he was "disarming" Berlins' Jews and that he had seized quantities of arms and ammunition in the last few weeks.

The announcement was made while Nazis were taking reprisals against Jews for the shooting of a German Embassy secretary in paris by a young Polish Jew, but the round-up of arms began some time before the Paris shooting.

It was disclosed that a systematic serach had been made and that all weapons for which sspecial permits were lacking were seized. The police chief said 1,702 firearms, 20,000 rounds of ammunition and 2,569 steel knives or knuckles had been found on Jews and that the search was continuing.

Anti-Jewish reprisals were reported from two German towns, while the government banned all Jewish publications until further notice.

# Mob Enters Synagogue.

At Kassel a Mob forced entrance into a synagogue and destroyed its furniture after a demonstration in front of Jewish stores against the attack upon Ernst vom Rath, secretary of the German Embassy in Paris, by Herschel Grynszpan, 17-year-old Polish Jew.

A similar anti-semitic demonstration occured in Bebra. Crowds assumbled outside the synagogue and Jewish stores, but refrained from violence.

The Nazi press, meanwhile, asserted the shooting would bring "serious consequences."

The suppression of Jewish papers hits three main Jewish organs--Central Verein Zeitung, Juedische Rundschau and Israelitisches Familienblatt--in addition to about 40 community papers and 10 religious and scientific publications.

DNB (German official news agency) reported from Bratislava, Czechoslovakia, that university students there demonstrated against 

{{< pdf-file "/pdf/1938-11-08-p5.pdf" >}}

Jewish professors and prevented Jewish students from entering classes.

# Jewish Restrictions Forecast in France

PARIS, Nov. 8 (AP).--The French press predicted today taht measures to restrict German Jewish refugees in france would evolve from the shooting here of a Nazi diplomat by a young Polish Jew.

The Paris newspapers reported that the German Embassy asked that Herschel Grynszpan, 17, be extradited to Germany for trial because his attack upon Ernst Vom Rath, its secretary, occured in the Embassy building, which is considered Germany territory.

Extradition would be most difficult, however, since French law provides against extradition for political crime.

Informed sources believed Premier Daladier would restrict German Jewish refugee immigration in the interests of friendship with the Nazi government and his desire for a French-German understanding.

Two doctors sent by Chancellor Hitler from Berlin--Dr. Brandt, his person physician, and Prof. George Magnus, director of Munich University Surgical Clinic--arrived to attend Vom Rath.

They went immediately to the hospital, where the diplomat's condition was considered "very grave." It was expected that a second operation to remove a bullet from his abdomen would be performed. A bullet was removed from his right shoulder yesterday.

Police continued questioning Grynszpan to determine whether he had accomplices in the attack he said was made "to avenge Jews against their Nazi persecutors."

A German Embassy Spokesman declared the youth was "pushed in the crime by propaganda of German refugees."

# Jews in Vienna Must Display Names

VIENNA, Nov. 8(AP).--Police today ordered all Jewish business firms and craftsmen to display their names and addresses in Hebrew characters at least as large as the German letters on their signboards after November 15.

Punishment for failure to comply was set at three months in jail.