+++
title = '11/10'
date = 2023-10-28T16:33:45-07:00
draft = false
tags = ['1929', 'Kristallnacht']
bookFlatSection = false
bookToc = true
bookHidden = false
bookCollapseSection = false
bookComments = true
bookSearchExclude = false
type = 'docs'
+++
{{< pdf-file "/pdf/1938-11-10-p1.pdf" >}}

# Anti-Jewish Riots Sweep Reich To Avenge Diplomat's Killing; Greatest Terror Orgy Since '33

## Goebbels Appeals To Germans to End Violence

By the Associated Press

BERLIN, Nov. 10.--Nazi Germany today indulged in its greatest wave of anti-Jewish violence since Adolf Hitler came to power in 1933.

A a national day of vengeance for the assassination of a German diplomat by a Jew in Paris wore on reports from every section of the country told of the burning and dynamiting of synagogues and demolition and looting of Jewish shops.

The reports indicated that the Campaign was conducted with a thoroughness and precision that left little to chance.

## Goebbels Calls Halt.

Only after more than 12 hours of nation-wide violence did Propaganda Minister Paul Joseph Goebbels call a halt, in a brief appeal to the people to desist from further demonstrations.

But his appeal concluded with what responsible Jews feared might be a threat of a general order for all Jews to leave the country.

"The justifiable and understandable indignation of the German people over the cowardly Jewish murder of a German diplomant in Paris has resulted during the past night in extensive demonstrations," said Goebbels.

He referred to the killing of Ernst von Rath, secretary of the Paris Embassy, by a 17-year-old Polish Jew who had lived in Germany

## Violence Nation-wide.

Telephoned reports from many parts of Germany showed the extent of anti-Jewish violence, which bagan early today.

Seven of Berlin's twenty synagogues were burned. All Vienna's twenty-one synagogues were reported burned, wrecked or badly damaged. In Munich all Jews were told by angry Nazis that they must leave the country within 48 hours.

"In numerous cities and communities of the Reich," said Goebbels' appeal, "acts of violence were committed against Jewish buildings and businesses.

"The entire population is now however, strictly requested to desist immediately from all further demonstrations and actions of whatever nature against Jewdom.

"The final answer to Jewry will be given in the form of laws or decrees."

Responsible Jews hearing this closing sentence expressed fears that a general order would be issued compelling all Jews to leave the country.

Goebbels' appeal was issued at 4 p.m. (10 a.m., E. S. T.).

## Reports From Nation.

The extent of the anti-Jewish wave was shown by the following telephoned reports from many cities to the Associated Press:

Munich--ALl Jews were told they must leave the country within 48 hours. The only remaining Jewish bank, Aufhausers, was raided and its windows smashed. One of its directors and his wife committed suicide, another was taken to a concentration camp. A third, a British subject, was not molested.

Nurnberg--Private houses of Jews were entered, children thrown out of their beds, furniture was smashed, carpets torn up.

Cologne--Crowds broke windows in nearly every Jewish shop. An entrance to a synagogue was forced, its seats overturned, windows smashed, books torn, One building was set afire, but the blaze was quickly extinguished. A century-old Jewish restaurant was badly damaged.

## Synagogue Destroyed.

Salzburg--A synagogue was destroyed and its ritual emblems demolished. Shops of small Jewish tradesmen were invaded, demolished and looted.

Potsdam--A synagogue was raided and Jewish shops destroyed.

Treutlingen, Bamberg and Bayreuth, all in Bavaria, reported synagogues demolished.

At Eberswalde, Brandenburg and Kottrus, all near Berlin, synagogues were burned.

Mobs charged into a police guard in the heart of Berlin and began plundering shattered Jewish Shops while smoke still billowed from synagogues in various parts of the capital.

Shop windows were smashed in

{{< pdf-file "/pdf/1938-11-10-p6.pdf" >}}

several German centers. Synagogues were broken into. FIres raged in 7 of the 20 Berlin synagogues as well as in Munich and Dresden synagogues.

Crowds, angry and pluder-bent, pushed police aside in Friedrichstrasse, in downtown Berlin, and surged into the arcade between that important avenue and famed Unterden Linden. The arcade houses many Jewish shops.

Vienna dispatches reported the total or partial destruction of all the 21 synagogues in the city. Vienna Jews said 22 of their number had committed suicide in despair. One synagogue in the Austrian capital was blown up, three others wrecked, while Storm Troopers compelled Jews to begin tearing down another.

## Police Are Helpless.

In Berlin a mob had jammed Friedrichstrasse since rioting began early in the morning. Police were helpless against the looting crowd, angered by teh killing of Von Rath by Herschel Grynszpan, Von Rath, shot Monday, died yesterday.

Police said no extra officers were available to handle the Friedrichstrasse mob, as all had been sent to other trouble spots, especially to the burning synagogues.

One of Berlin's newest synagogues on Prinz Regenten Strasse was still ablaze at 1:30p.m. The cupola was burning, although the front still was standing.

Officials would not say whether they considered the fires incendiary.

## Arms Barred to Jews.

DNB; the official German News Agency, in a short bulletin said of the violence that "the grossly enraged German people vented their ire in manifold strong anti-Jewish actions."

Heinrich Himmler, a chief of the secret police, issued a decree forbidding Jews to carry weapons. Twenty years in concentration camp is the penalty for violation.

Police squads made rapid tours of the city in automobiles in an apparent effort to check the violence, which authoritative Nazi Quarters yesterday said was officially disapproved.

No accurate estimate of the damage could be had for the window smashing, looting of shop windows and fires, but it may total millions of marks.

Gangs moving through Berlin streets before dawn smashed every Jewish store front they could identify by the white letters police orders require.

When the death of the Paris Legation secretary became known in Vienna early this morning angry throngs collected in teh Jewish section, Leopoldstadt, adjoining the main business section. Two Vienna synagogues were raided and their interiors wrecked. A Jewish kindergarten also was broken into.

Brown-shirted Storm Troopers, black-uniformed SS Guards and police quickly entered Leopoldstadt. They stopped all Jewish pedestrians and searched them for weapons, in compliance with the new Himmler decree. Some were taken to a nearby police station.

A crowd assembled at Dresen after midnight in an anti-Jewish demonstration. Fire heavily damaged the interior of the Dresden Synagogue shortly after 3 a.m. Window-smashing squads made the round of Jewish stores.

Munich also reported a synagogue fire, but it was put out after several hours. Secret police went to many Jewish homes and arrested men for undisclosed reasons.

Most heavily damaged of the Berlin synagogues was one in Franzens-Baderstrasse in the exclusive suburban Grunewald. The interior was destroeyd and the roof collapsed after the fire spread into the three domes,

Through the late morning thousands crowded the main streets of West End Berlin to gaze at the windowless Jewish shops.