+++
title = '04/12'
date = 2023-10-28T16:33:45-07:00
draft = false
tags = ['1861', 'April', 'Civil War']
bookFlatSection = false
bookToc = true
bookHidden = false
bookCollapseSection = false
bookComments = true
bookSearchExclude = false
+++
{{< pdf-file "/pdf/1861-04-12-p1.pdf" >}}

# CAPTAIN KIDD, THE PIRATE.

Some years before, while the war was still raging, there had been loud complaints in the city that even privateers of St. Malo's and Dunkird caused less molestation to trade than another calss of marauders. The English navy was fully employed in the Channel, in the Atlantic and in the Mediterranean. The Indian Ocean meanwhile swarmed with pirates, of whose rapacity and cruely frightful stories were told. Many of these men, it was said, came from our North American colonies, and carried back to those colonies the spoils gained by crime. Adventurers who durst not how themselves in the Thames, found a ready market for their ill-gotten spices and stuffs at New York. Even the PUritans of New England, who in sanctimonious austerity surpassed even their brethren of scotland, were accused of conniving at the wickedness which enabled them to enjoy abundantly and cheaply the produce of Indian looms and Chinese tea plantations.

In 1695 Richard Coote, Earl of Bellamont, an Irish peer who sat in the English House of Commons, was appointed Governor of New York and Massachusetts. He was a man of eminetly fair character, upright, courageous and independent. Though a decided whig, he had distinguished himself by bringing before the Parliament at Westminster some tyrannical acts done by whigs at Dublin, and particularly the execution, if it is not rather to be called the murder, of Gafney. Before Bellamont sailed for America, William spoke strongly to him about the freebooting which was the disgrace of the colonies. "I send you, my lord, to New York," he said, "because an honest and intrepid man is wanted to put these abuses down, and because I believe you to be such a man." Bellamont exerted himself to justify the high opinion which the king had formed of him. It was soon known at New York that the Governor who had just arrived from England was bent on the suppression of piracy, and some colonists in whom he place great confidence suggested to him what they may perhaps have thought the best mode of attaining that object.

{{< pdf-file "/pdf/1861-04-12-p2.pdf" >}}

{{< pdf-file "/pdf/1861-04-12-p3.pdf" >}}

{{< pdf-file "/pdf/1861-04-12-p4.pdf" >}}