+++
title = '11/22'
date = 2023-10-28T16:33:45-07:00
draft = false
tags = ['1963', 'November', 'Kennedy']
+++

{{< pdf-file "/pdf/1963-11-22-p1.pdf" >}}

PRESIDENT IS KILLED

BY SNIPER IN TEXAS

DALLAS, Nov. 22 (AP). -- Two priests stepped out of Parkland Hospital's emergency ward today and said President Kennedy died of his bullet wounds.

He died at 1 p.m. (CST).

Dallas, Nov. 22 (AP). -- A sniper shot president Kennedy and Gov. John Connally of Texas in downtown Dallas today. Representative Albert Thomas of Texas said both were still alive in a hosspital emergency room. There were other reports the President was dead.

A Catholic priest who helped perform the last rites said he did not believe the President was dead.

The priest left the emergency operating room at Parkland Hospital and walked out of the hospital.

The secret service said the President, who was shot in the head, remained in the emergency room and the Governor was moved ot the general operating room of Parkland Hospital.

Transfusions Given

Mr. Kennedy, 46, was given blood transfusions in an effort to save his life.

Hospital officials said they had given the President a transfusion of B positive blood from the bank and were calling for fresh blood of that type to have it ready if additional transfusions were needed.

At 1:10pm (CST), Mrs. Lyndon Johnson was escorted by Secret SErvice agents into the emergency room where the President lay and Vice President Johnson was.

Mrs. Johnson said when she came out that the vice president "is fine."

Asked if her husband also had been wounded, she shook her head negatively.

Shots Fired From Balcony

Assistant Presidnetal Press Secretary Malcolm Kilduff said at 2 p.m. (EST) that the president was still alive. Shortly after that a Catholic priest was ushered into the mergency room.

A television cameraman said three rifle shots were fired from a fifth-floor balcony of the Texas Book Depository, a place for storage aof textbooks.

The cameraman, Mal Couch, said nearby police "hit the ground and drew their pistols" when the shots rang out, and the President's car sped off down an expressway.

{{< pdf-file url="/pdf/1963-11-22-p32.pdf" >}}

{{< pdf-file url="/pdf/1963-11-22-p33.pdf" >}}

{{< pdf-file url="/pdf/1963-11-22-p34.pdf" >}}